---
title: "Steps to Implementing an Algorithm"
date: "2013-08-10T08:14:05.284Z"
layout: post
path: "/steps-to-implementing-an-algorithm-5714c47c579d/"
---


In order to understand how to implement an Algorithm, we first need to
conceptually understand what an Algorithm is. An Algorithm is a series of steps
that you expect will arrive at a specific solution. Writing a program does not
equal expressing code, that idea ignores and neglects the entire idea of writing
code to solve a problem.

1) Establish the Rules of a Problem: *Especially in a job interview, they’ll ask
you a problem that can be interpreted in many ways. They are looking for how you
respond to those problems. Don’t assume you know what the interviewer/your
problem is meaning. It’s almost inevitable that you’ll go down the wrong path,
but you need to get good at pivoting back on the right path. Figuring out that
you have spent most of the morning wasting your time is what programming is
about.

2) Explore the Problem Space: Don’t put rigorous constraints on yourself. When
people are thinking about the problem, often times they write steps, they then
have a big list of steps that doesn’t necessarily coincide with the steps of an
Algorithm. It’s OK to write down loose ideas of your plan, but acknowledge that
you’re still just thinking about the problem. The list of ideas that you created
aren’t the new 10 commandments to solving your problem.

3) TDD: Write a Test that Would Verify a Solution: If you’re doing TDD, which
you should be, you’re going to sort of invest in writing a test that does say
what validates a correct solution. Skip this step if you’re not doing TDD. In
reality, you’ll probably skip this step when you do a rough draft, then you
should come back to it later.

4) Specify a Plan that Should Solve the Problem and Elaborate the Plan into
Steps: Come up with a sequence of steps that you can explain to a very obedient
preschooler. Don’t use pronouns and be very specific. There should be no room
for confusion for what these steps really mean.

    Optionally, verify each step in the process manually/mentally for some simple
input. Be careful to not confuse what SHOULD happen with what is ACTUALLY
happening. Pretend like you have no idea what the pseudocode is doing when you
run through it.

5) Translate each step into a line of code: This step, believe it or not, is
deterministic. The process of translating from one definitely clear solution in
english can be easily translated to a correct programming language.

Punch Line: If you find yourself diving right into code and it doesn’t work,
you’re probably skipping these early steps.